So data.
1 to 1 when we are hashing data we are using a one way month magical algorithm like we see in the picture
right here.
So we have some text or file it could be anything.
Then we run it through our hashing algorithm and then we get some has text out of it.
So the idea behind this has value is that it is unique based on the content of this file or text that
we have right here.
So if we chain a single liver or buy it in this file there has value will be completely different.
And that is the unique thing about this hashing and when we get into what we are using it to you'll
understand why this is such a unique way.
But the important fact is that these algorithms are one way meant medical algorithms mean that you cannot
take a test value and run it through the room again and then get your original text or file out of it.
That is not possible.
So it is one way and that is important to remember because what.
But having this one way I will not generate our unique value based on the content that you are giving
it.
You really have like a fingerprint of that particular file.
So for example your fingerprints on your hands uniquely identifies you as a person and it is the same
for hashing there has value identifiers this file or text uniquely.
Of course there are some algorithms that have duplicates meaning that some very rare cases that we are
seeing that two files can get the same has values but we are slowly shifting away from these and using
new algorithms that these duplicates are very rare on the edge from possible.
And we are using this when we are verifying files and in our public key infrastructure because for firewood
verification it is important for us that we can verify that argument file is what it is expected to
be.
So for example when you download a file from a Web site you sometimes will see that it has indeed five
hash underneath or somewhere in the browser and that is because you can use that has value too.
After you have downloaded the file on your machine you can run it to only five algorithm as well.
And if you get the same hash value you know that no one have temper with this file on the way meaning
that the file has gotten completely from the server that have this website and to your computer and
there is not a man in the middle who has switched the file around so that you gain some malicious files
on your computer and we are also using it for passwords because a secure system should never store passwords
directly in the database.
So let's see how does that works.
So password hashing is seen on this picture right here.
So we normally know this inform type where we have a username and we have a password.
So what is happening is that Henry is lucky in which his username of Henry then he is entering his password
which he has defined himself.
Then our application will take his password run it through a hashing algorithm and then it will get
a host value out of this password and then they will be storing the has value in the database instead.
This means that only his password are able to generate this exact test that we saved for him this user.
So if a hacker gets access to this database let's say the entire database got hacked they will only
have the highest value mean that they cannot read the password in plaintext because if Henry used this
password in multiple places and his password were in plaintext they basically had access to all other
accounts that he used this on.
Of course we see a similar problem if every website used the same hashing algorithm because then the
password will get the same has value and that is why we also have a social value attached to this hashing
over a password.
But this final lecture the important part here is that you understand that we can use it for passwords
storing these has values and the fact that we can't generate them the other way around.
We have no way of getting his original password.
This also means that the developers and owners of this system don't know his passwords as well because
if they look up in the database all they see is this has value and they can't take this has value and
try to use it as password because then it has value will get through the hashing over room and again
get another has and then it wont miss this one so they can see his has value but not his actual password.
If this is implemented in the right way.